What are AI agents?
What are the best use cases for them?
And what do we need to start building them?
We're going to answer these questions
in this first lesson of the AI agents for beginners course.
In this course, we're going to take you from concept to code
covering the fundamentals of building AI agents.
And in this short video, it follows along
with the written lesson, including translations
and a code sample that you can find the link to
above and below this video.
Well, let's get started looking at the parts of an AI agent.
And the first part is a large language model,
which powers the reasoning behind our AI agents.
And what we mean by reasoning is being able to identify
a task requested by users, create a plan to complete
that task and perform the actions of that plan.
Next up is memory.
This can be short-term, the context of the conversation
between the user and the agent, or long-term,
which is a collection of data that allows the agent
to improve over time in completing the task.
After that is tools.
This can be different services accessed by APIs
that perform an action, data to help determine
what action to take, or different functions
that we will run to send information to the AI agent.
And combining all of these things,
an agent uses the LLM to recognize the task
of the user would want to complete,
identify what available tools are needed
to complete that task, and memory to gather the information
and data that's needed to complete that task.
A simple, real-world example you do every day, hopefully,
is brushing your teeth.
You need to plan out when and where to do it.
Your tools are your toothbrush and toothpaste.
And you have some in-context memory
of the current status of you brushing your teeth
and long-term memory,
maybe your preferences of toothpaste waiver.
I'm a spearman fan myself.
Thanks for asking.
But we aren't here to brush our teeth.
We're here to build AI agents.
So let's head over to the code to do so.
Okay, so now we're here in our code editor
to run the first code sample attached to lesson one.
In this example, we're going to actually work
with semantic kernel and agentic framework
from Microsoft and GitHub models,
which gives us free access to large language models.
If this is the first time you've seen a Jupyter notebook
or if you want to learn how to get set up,
we actually have a chapter dedicated to setting this up
and running the code in the course.
But we won't focus too much on specifics
of semantic kernel in this lesson,
as the next chapter will be a focus
on the different agentic frameworks,
how they work and their differences and benefits.
But the first thing I want to point you to
is this class destinations plugin.
This is basically where we start to list the functions
or tools that we basically want the agent to being called.
In this case, we have an agent that has an availability
of different, a list basically
of different destinations around the world.
And we also have a function that makes it
that each time you call it,
it will choose a random city out of that list
and give it to the user or basically return it.
So we're going to, again, not really focus too much
exactly on how semantic kernel is working,
but this is the syntax of adding that plugin
or adding that tool, like we explained earlier,
agents have access to, on to that agent,
as well as assigning the large language model,
which in this case, I'm going to use GPT-40 mini.
Feel free to experiment with different large language models
and see how they react.
So we're going to go ahead and now go to the code.
We're going to actually simulate a little bit of difference
like of how a user would be interacting with this agent.
So the first thing is they're going to ask for a day trip.
And I think this kind of really illustrates
some of the powers of working with large language models
is a user can kind of communicate in natural language
and not to say I want a vacation, for example,
but a day trip in a large language model
should be able to interpret that this is asking
or maybe requiring the calling this function,
this random destinations, because again,
the user has not really provided a specific city.
And the large language model is aware of
how, what tools are being assigned to it.
And then we're going to also play
with a little bit of the memory itself
by allowing the user to say
they don't like that first destination
and they should plan another vacation.
So if the agent has context, again,
that in context of the memory of the conversations,
it should not repeat itself on the vacation destination.
So if we go into this now interaction,
we can see the user saying plan me a day trip
and then the travel agent comes in and suggests Sydney.
So again, to confirm Sydney is a part of the list
of vacation destinations
that we have assigned into the function.
The user says they don't really like this destination
and plan me another vacation.
So sorry, anyone watching from Sydney.
But then again, though, the agent comes back
and plans a nice trip to Rio de Janeiro,
very similar format.
So again, you can see that the agent
is operating with that function
that returns to the cities.
So it's not just pulling it
from every city it's aware of.
And it also is working with the context memory
to know what the conversation is happening
and displaying an alternative.
So wherever you are,
I hope you enjoy your trip to Sydney,
or Rio de Janeiro,
but our trip on this journey in AI Agents Beginners
goes to lesson two where we'll explore
the different agentic frameworks out there.
See you in the next one.
